---
pageClass: custom-page-class
---

# 1077 Kuchiguse 20 ☆

github地址：[https://github.com/iofu728/PAT-A-by-iofu728](https://github.com/iofu728/PAT-A-by-iofu728)
难度：☆☆☆
关键词：字符串

### 题目

> 1077 Kuchiguse（20）
> The Japanese language is notorious for its sentence ending particles. Personal preference of such particles can be considered as a reflection of the speaker's personality. Such a preference is called "Kuchiguse" and is often exaggerated artistically in Anime and Manga. For example, the artificial sentence ending particle `"nyan~"` is often used as a stereotype for characters with a cat-like personality:
>
> `Itai nyan~ (It hurts, nyan~)`
>
> `Ninjin wa iyada nyan~ (I hate carrots, nyan~)`
>
> Now given a few lines spoken by the same character, can you find her Kuchiguse?
>
> Input Specification:
> Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line is an integer `N` (2≤N≤100). Following are N file lines of 0`~`256 (inclusive) characters in length, each representing a character's spoken line. The spoken lines are case sensitive.
>
> Output Specification:
> For each test case, print in one line the kuchiguse of the character, i.e., the longest common suffix of all `N` lines. If there is no such suffix, write nai.
>
> Sample Input 1:
> 3
> Itai nyan~
> Ninjin wa iyadanyan~
> uhhh nyan~
> Sample Output 1:
> nyan~
> Sample Input 2:
> 3
> Itai!
> Ninjinnwaiyada T_T
> T_T
> Sample Output 2:

### 大意
选择n个字符串的最长公共后缀

### 思路
1. 为处理后缀,最好对字符串进行`reverse`
2. 一个个字符串遍历下来,不同,就截断
3. 利用cin接着用getline时候注意中间的\n要用getchar()过滤掉；

### code
```cpp
#include <algorithm>
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main(int argc, char const *argv[]) {
  int n;
  cin >> n;
  getchar();
  string common;
  for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
    string s;
    getline(cin, s);
    reverse(s.begin(), s.end());
    if (i) {
      int length = min(s.length(), common.length());
      for (int j = 0; j < length; ++j) {
        if (common[j] != s[j]) {
          common = common.substr(0, j);
          break;
        }
      }
    } else {
      common = s;
    }
  }
  reverse(common.begin(), common.end());
  if (!common.length()) common = "nai";
  cout << common;
  return 0;
}

```
