---
pageClass: custom-page-class
---

# 1078 Hashing 25 ☆☆

github地址：[https://github.com/iofu728/PAT-A-by-iofu728](https://github.com/iofu728/PAT-A-by-iofu728)
难度：☆☆☆
关键词：散列 平方hash

### 题目

> 1078 Hashing（25）
> The task of this problem is simple: insert a sequence of distinct positive integers into a hash table, and output the positions of the input numbers. The hash function is defined to be `H(key)=key%TSize` where `TSize` is the maximum size of the hash table. Quadratic probing (with positive increments only) is used to solve the collisions.
>
> Note that the table size is better to be prime. If the maximum size given by the user is not prime, you must re-define the table size to be the smallest prime number which is larger than the size given by the user.
>
> Input Specification:
> Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains two positive numbers: `MSize` (≤10^4) and `N` (≤`MSize`) which are the user-defined table size and the number of input numbers, respectively. Then N distinct positive integers are given in the next line. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space.
>
> Output Specification:
> For each test case, print the corresponding positions (index starts from 0) of the input numbers in one line. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line. In case it is impossible to insert the number, print "-" instead.
>
> Sample Input:
> 4 4
> 10 6 4 15
> Sample Output:
> 0 1 4 -

### 大意
对N个数，散列到MSize中。散列函数H(key)=key%TSize，如果遇到冲突，利用平方来解决，最长不超过Msize

### 思路
1. 如果Msize 不是质数，需要扩大范围；
2. 利用`bool vis[MAXN] = {false};`来判断hash位置有无被占；
3. 如果没占，直接进，否则按照平方解决冲突，如果还是不行，输出'-'；

### code
```cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

const int MAXN = 10009;
bool vis[MAXN] = {false};
int n;

bool isPrimer(int num) {
  if (num == 1) {
    return false;
  }
  for (int i = 2; i * i <= num; ++i) {
    if (!(num % i)) return false;
  }
  return true;
}

void haveEmpty(int node) {
  for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
    int pos = (node + i * i) % n;
    if (!vis[pos]) {
      cout << pos % n;
      vis[pos] = true;
      return;
    }
  }
  cout << '-';
}

int main(int argc, char const *argv[]) {
  int m, temp;
  cin >> n >> m;
  while (!isPrimer(n)) ++n;
  for (int i = 0; i < m; ++i) {
    cin >> temp;
    if (i) cout << ' ';
    haveEmpty(temp);
  }
  return 0;
}

```
